so what is the single most important
thing that you think I should know about
vegans on YouTube about this whole sort
of subset of the vegan community Wow I
know sure
okay look you know I answer your
question with a question
how would any of us be living our lives
if we actually believed in slogans like
save the planet you know and I think
vegans sincere vegans are trying to come
up with answers to that question about a
shin so I want to actually take a step
back for a second you said in your
interview with the light winds that
assuming durianrider is not about your
ego it's about veganism and what you
were what you just said reminded me of
that um can you explain that a little
bit yeah you got all day I know I know I
know yeah look I mean you know so my
dramatic video the one video that is
more than a hundred thousand views the
video I break down weeping in I think
states that most passionately and then
the fundraising video says it again you
know I feel that these people took
something you know good and earnest and
pure you know at the core of veganism
itself and they dragged it through the
mud
they made it something that people
regard with contempt and pity they made
it something infamous and trashy and you
know they made it into a very profitable
business for themselves at the same time
which is hardly surprising I've said
before I'll say again very briefly you
know at the core of veganism is simply
the moral resolution of somebody who's
getting on a train and he's hungry but
he's not going to eat a doughnut because
he knows that a doughnut contains eggs
and dairy there's nobody else to see him
do that the eggs and dairy are invisible
he does it because he's alright it's the
right thing to do and he says you know
what this matters enough to me that I'm
going to go hungry for a couple of hours
you know because I care I whether it's
that I care about animal rights or I
care about ecology I care about the
consequences of my actions I'm going to
do the right thing I think that's
beautiful and I think that's a basis for
something so positive and so
wholesome and so wonderful in the world
and I can say you know I encourage you
to do it I can encourage your
grandmother to do it I can encourage a
kid to do it you know it's wholesome and
wonderful and good and they've taken it
and they've dragged it through the mud
you know so yeah what why why go to
court you know that's why at some point
we have to stand up and say no veganism
is not about violence and defamation and
it's not about bikinis and bicycles and
weight loss fads there's actually
supposed to be an ethical and ecological
core to what veganism is and you know I
I just happen to be the canary in the
coal mine I just happen to be the guy
the latest guy that's happened to and
you know who stood up and and said look
I'm not that easy to push over because
as you may know from your research quite
and during writer has done this to quite
a number of other people but in this
case you did it the wrong guy can you
can you tell me who are some people that
during writer has done this to in the
past
I have been looking at them for a while
but I'm interested to hear well look
everyone everyone's playing it
everyone's playing a different game
everyone's playing a different game by
different rules and we pretend it's the
same game oh right and the other person
sorry the other person who's still in
Chiangmai is Hannah Chloe so well I okay
um I've got a short video on Hannah
that's not an hour I forget it's eight
minutes or something why reflect on the
morality of all that and the sexual
allegations counter allegations
obviously you know most people playing
this game end up emotionally devastated
when they didn't think they would and
I'm the guy who wasn't you know like all
these other people like Jack Francis
name you've probably heard before he
actually sent me you know a note of
appreciation on the internet because he
said when when durianrider made
allegations against him he just
collapsed he just went into a depression
I went to do an emotional downward
spiral and he couldn't deal with it he
couldn't stand up for himself or what
have you now you know so many different
people react to the same sort of thing
in different ways there was another guy
whose screen name was passed
and fruit and he was terrified when
durianrider made the same threats
against him and Chiang Mai I forget if
it's one year ago two years ago I think
it's just one year ago
and he left town he ran away you know so
probably that's what during my I thought
I would do he thought I would collapse
into tears or I would run out of town
and I didn't I said okay see what you
see me and so you know I'm a middle-aged
intellectual who spent my whole life
working with books in my desk I never
thought I was the toughest guy in Chiang
Mai but I ended up exposing during
writer for the very real coward and
hypocrite that he is just by not backing
down okay so Jamie from Jeremiah to
freely and I know you said that she's
the least interesting aspect of the
story I'm actually really interested to
hear about what why you think that what
what is your take on freely on her Raza
Ford diet um and why do you think she's
not worth thinking about I you know look
YouTube as a medium is primarily driven
by talking I think you gotta have a lot
to say as you probably guess from this
interview I do have a lot to say if you
look at my CV I'm someone who cares a
lot about history and politics and a
whole range of issues and yeah people
who hate me say I like the sound of my
own voice that's true
but that's part of why I'm on YouTube
freely is somebody at this point who has
nothing to say
so that fundamentally makes her pretty
boring now as it happens her diet is
diet doesn't work it's not
scientifically sound her claims that she
spent hundreds of hours researching it
are very easily tested and refuted her
her claims but let me just live systems
but also you know her claims about
having credentials the Australian press
already exposed that those were false so
before the Australian press did I did a
series of videos says now I had at least
two different videos talking about both
her pseudoscience and her dubious claims
to having you know a diploma or
certificate relevance to being a
dietitian and put the Australian
newspapers took that a step further and
actually you know spoke to the College
where she falsely claimed to have a
certificate from so you can fact check
that really easily that's a two-second
Google search so no they did I think
that answers your your first question
same or you just you just ask the second
question you've asked have I have I
tried her diet
no sure no no totally fine no I am NOT
an expert in rato for I am NOT an ex raw
foodist of any kind and I never I've
never tried a weight loss diet of any
kind so I'm very different from other
people who can disillusion with this
stuff but I am a vegan and I've been
through you know different periods of
time of trying to cope with veganism as
a diet in different ways as most of us
have I walk past her on the street in
Chiang Mai no and I mean I think at the
start of this there was this illusion
that somehow freely in Durham bar there
were very separate people and that they
weren't denouncing people in the same
way
but as you'll see in the research of
this article freely as a long history of
just being a battle-axe herself I she
doesn't threaten to beat people up but
she they'd the two of them play a very
similar game in reality also when this
started I I assumed that all the rumors
of them having broken up were nonsense
but now more and more comes out
suggesting that there's actually some
truth to them well yeah I'm not sure
they just posted a video together but
we'll see you know it's look it's pretty
weird Cheeta was the one who did the
work on this but I mean you know if
you're on vacation in Thailand and
you're staying in separate hotel rooms
it's a little weird that's all it's
already an indication so you know I
honestly I could care I could not care
less about their personal lives but you
know Cheeta pointed that stuff out and
then later I said well you know when you
put the pieces together I guess that's
where it's at yeah so what is the single
most important thing that you think I
should know about
viens on YouTube about this whole sort
of subset of the vegan community Wow
sure
okay look you know I answer your
question with a question how would any
of us be living our lives if we actually
believed in slogans like save the planet
you know and I think vegans sincere
vegans are trying to come up with
answers to that question
for me the answer is not kicking down
the door of a restaurant and screaming
at people who are eating hamburgers that
they should stop in hamburgers and for
me the answer is also not putting on a
bikini going to Thailand photographing
yourself on the beach on Instagram this
kind of lifestyle activism so I'm in the
awkward position of being a genuine
moderate of actually endorsing
democratic pluralistic political means
of pursuing social change I wish I could
tell you that vegans are wonderful
people just because they're vegan but
they're not what this whole you know
scandal illustrates is that yes vegans
can be stupid they can be scumbags they
can be violence you know they can be
homophobic they can have all the evils
of any other part of society and if you
don't really get organized if you don't
you know embrace the same organizational
methods that throw human history have
prevented political movements from
becoming extremists then you can very
quickly spiral into the same kind of
ugly extremism that you might associate
with neo-nazis or communists um okay I
really appreciate your time and I know
it's sort of hard using the Internet in
China a little difficult so I appreciate
you taking time to Skype with me and
I'll be in touch for sure oh yeah you
could send me that email abhi great okay
great I mean I just say now that you've
got a basis in it I mean you know I hope
I'm not talking to you about a dead body
you know three weeks
Jermel but immuno this is crazy we're
dealing with extremely malevolent
extremely stupid crazy people as part of
a overtly extremist movement so yes you
know the threats of violence are real
the danger is real and I want to address
that not just from my own sake but for
the future of veganism because I do not
want veganism
to be a joke and that's exactly what it
has become
I've understand